.TH hurl 1 "23 Jun 2022" "hurl 1.7.0-snapshot" " Hurl Manual"
.SH NAME

hurlfmt - format Hurl files


.SH SYNOPSIS

.B hurlfmt
[options] [FILE]


.SH DESCRIPTION

.B hurlfmt
formats Hurl files and converts to other formats.

With no FILE, read standard input.


By default, hurlfmt outputs a formatted and colorized version of the input hurl file.

    $ hurl hello.hurl
    GET http://localhost:8000/hello

    HTTP/1.0 200



hurlfmt can be used to convert to other format.


    $ hurl hello.hurl --output json | jq
    {
      "entries": [
        {
          "request": {
            "method": "GET",
            "url": "http://localhost:8000/hello"
          },
          "response": {
            "version": "HTTP/1.0",
            "status": 200
          }
        }
      ]
    }




.SH OPTIONS


.IP "--check "

Run in 'check' mode. Exits with 0 if input is formatted correctly, 1 otherwise. 

This can not be used with \fI--output\fP.

This option is not stable yet.


.IP "--color "

Colorize Output.
 
This can not be used \fI--in-place\fP.


.IP "--format "

Specify output format: text (default), json or html.


.IP "-h, --help "

Usage help.


.IP "--inplace "

Modify file in place.

This can be used only with text output.


.IP "--no-color "

Do not colorize Output.


.IP "--no-format "

Do not format output. 

By default text output is automatically formatted.


.IP "-o, --output <file> "

Write output to <file> instead of stdout.


.IP "--standalone "

Output full html file with css instead of html fragment (default).
     
This can be used only with html output.


.IP "-V, --version "

Prints version information




.SH EXIT CODES

.IP "1"

Failed to parse command-line options.


.IP "2"

Input File Parsing Error.


.SH WWW

\fIhttps://hurl.dev\fP


.SH SEE ALSO

hurl(1)


